Provide clarifications on content type and serialization (#83)
APIs-guru/graphql-over-http: README.md

# Serialization Format

> The GraphQL specification allows for many [serialization formats to be implemented](https://spec.graphql.org/June2018/#sec-Serialization-Format). In practice JSON is the most common serialization format. In order to be compliant, servers and clients implementing GraphQL over HTTP must support JSON serialization.

Reviewer: Wholeheartedly agree with that change. It is really important for interoperability to have a common serialization format.

Maybe we can change the text slightly to clarify that supporting JSON is a minimal requirement, but usage of other formats is also fine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The GraphQL specification allows for many [serialization formats to be implemented](https://spec.graphql.org/June2018/#sec-Serialization-Format). Servers and clients over HTTP MUST support JSON and MAY support other, additional serialization formats.
```

## Content Types

The following are the officially recognized GraphQL content types to designate encoding JSON over HTTP.

| Name | Description |
| `application/graphql+json` | Required
| `application/json` | To support legacy clients

A server MUST support requests from clients with HTTP header `Content-Type: application/graphql+json` indicating that the body of the request is a JSON document with a GraphQL request. A server must indicate the content type of the response with a `Content-Type` header. This default value should be `Content-Type: application/graphql+json` indicating that the response is a valid JSON document containing at least one of the `data` or `errors` as a top-level attribute.

A server MAY support requests from clients with other content types.

A client MUST handle receiving responses with HTTP header `Content-Type: application/graphql+json` since any compliant server must support this type.

> This header MAY include encoding information (e.g. `Content-type: application/graphql+json; charset=utf-8`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This header MAY include encoding information (e.g. `Content-Type: application/graphql+json; charset=utf-8`)
```

> This header MAY include encoding information (e.g. `Content-type: application/json; charset=utf-8`)

Reviewer 4: Since the one required content-type is `graphql+json`, should the example of additionally supplying `charset` be based on that required content-type?  (Or was your intent to show both `other content type` and `encoding information` in a single example?)  If this is only the example for encoding information then:
 
```suggestion
This header MAY include encoding information (e.g. `Content-type: application/graphql+json; charset=utf-8`)
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This header MAY include encoding information (e.g. `Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8`)
```

# Request

> A server MUST accept either GET requests or POST requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A server MUST accept at least one of the request methods GET and POST.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A server MUST accept POST requests, and MAY accept other HTTP methods, such as GET.
```

> A server MUST accept either GET requests or POST requests.

Reviewer 5: I have never encountered a server which doesn't support POST. 
I think it should be `MUST accept POST`

> A server SHOULD handle both GET and POST requests.

Reviewer 3: There is ambiguity here in that one line states that a server MUST accept **_either_** GET **_or_** POST requests and then that it should **_handle_** both.

Reviewer 6: It also seemed strange to me.

Reviewer 3: What is the difference between `accept` and `handle`?

> A server MUST accept either GET requests or POST requests.
> 
> A server SHOULD handle both GET and POST requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A server MUST handle POST requests, and MAY handle other HTTP methods, such as GET.
```

* `operationName` - [*Optional*]: The name of the Operation in the Document to execute.
* `variables` - [*Optional*]: Values for any Variables defined by the Operation.

Note: Be aware that `query` is a misleading name as it can contain a string describing the operation that may be either a query, a mutation or a subscription.

Note: depending on the serialization format used, values of the aforementioned parameters can be
encoded differently but their names and semantics must stay the same.

Note: specifying `null` in JSON (or equivalent values in other formats) as values for optional request parameters is equivalent to not specifying them at all.

## GET

> For HTTP GET requests, the query parameters MUST be provided in the query component of the request URL in the form of

Reviewer 3: I totally agree that this should be changed to MUST.  I cannot imagine what could be done with a GET request that contained no operation.

`key=value` pairs with `&` symbol as a separator and both the key and value should have their "reserved" characters percent-encoded as specified in [section 2 of RFC3986](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-2).

> The unencoded value of the `variables` parameter MUST be represented as a URL-encoded JSON string.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The value of the `variables` parameter MUST be represented as a URL-encoded JSON object, with a name-value pair for each variable and its value.
```

This is what the example shows: the unencoded/decoded value is a JSON object, the actual/encoded value is a URL-encoded JSON object. No double-encoding.

Reviewer 3: nit pick (not blocking): JSON is a string (the `N` is for notation).

Reviewer 7: I'm still confused by `The unencoded value ... represented as a URL-encoded ...`.

Does this mean that I 
- first have to translate the variables object into JSON, 
- then URL-encode that JSON to get an _un_-encoded parameter value, 
- and then again percent-encode the _un_-encoded parameter value before sending it in the HTTP request?

I hope percent/URL-encoding happens only once.

GET requests must ONLY be used for executing queries and MUST NOT be used for mutations or subscriptions.

Servers MUST return an _Error response_ if a GET request includes a `query` and `operationName` (if present) describing an operation other than a query, such as a mutation or subscription.

> Clients MUST NOT send GET requests for non-query operations.

Reviewer 3: Are these lines similar in meaning?

> GET requests must ONLY be used for executing queries and MUST NOT be used for mutations or subscriptions.

and 

> Clients MUST NOT send GET requests for non-query operations.

If not, should we provide an example of a `non-query operation`?

> Clients SHOULD NOT send a `Content-type` header on a GET request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Clients SHOULD NOT send a `Content-Type` header on a GET request.
```

## POST

A GraphQL POST request instructs the server to perform a query, mutation or subscription operation. A GraphQL POST request should have a body which contains values of the request parameters encoded according to the value of `Content-Type` header of the request.

> When sending a POST request to a GraphQL server a client MUST include a body.

Reviewer 3: This line seems like it might be contradictory to the one above it.  The first one says `A GraphQL POST request should have a body...`, but this one says MUST.  Perhaps they could be combined?

> A GraphQL POST request instructs the server to perform a query, mutation or subscription operation. A GraphQL POST request should have a body which contains values of the request parameters encoded according to the value of `Content-Type` header of the request.
> 
> When sending a POST request to a GraphQL server a client MUST include a body.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A GraphQL POST request instructs the server to perform a query, mutation or subscription operation. A GraphQL POST request MUST have a body which contains values of the request parameters encoded according to the value of `Content-Type` header of the request.
```

> A client MUST include a `content-type` with a POST request.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
A client MUST include a `Content-Type` with a POST request.
```

}
```

# Response

When a GraphQL server receives a request, it must return a well‐formed response. The server's
response describes the result of executing the requested operation if successful, and describes
any errors encountered during the request.

## Body

If the server's response contains a body it should follow the requirements for [GraphQL response](https://graphql.github.io/graphql-spec/June2018/#sec-Response).

> A server MUST return a `Content-Type` HTTP Header with a value of a valid GraphQL content type. By default the response MUST be serialized as JSON and MUST include a  "Content-type: application/graphql+json` header.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A server MUST return a `Content-Type` HTTP Header with a value of a valid GraphQL content type. By default the response MUST be serialized as JSON and MUST include a  "Content-Type: application/graphql+json` header.
```

If another content type is preferable to a client, it MAY include an `Accept` HTTP header listing other acceptable content types in order of preference. In this case a client SHOULD include `application/graphql+json` in the list, according to their preferred priority.

> If no `Accept` header is given, the server MUST respond with a content type of `application/graphql+json`.

Author: Perhaps weaken this statement and add non-normative note suggesting that this default be application/graphql+json to support legacy clients, to allow more wider implementations.

The server MUST respect the given `Accept` header and attempt to encode the respond in the first supported content type listed. According to the [HTTP 1.1 Accept](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-5.3.2) specification, when a client does not include at least one supported content type in the `Accept` HTTP header, the server MAY choose to respond in one of several ways. The server MUST either:

> 1. Disregard the `Accept` header and respond with the default content type of `application/graphql`, specifying this in the `Content-type` header; OR

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Disregard the `Accept` header and respond with the default content type of `application/graphql+json`, specifying this in the `Content-type` header; OR
```

+json ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Disregard the `Accept` header and respond with the default content type of `application/graphql+json`, specifying this in the `Content-Type` header; OR
```
